# Particle tracking in a flow past a hemispherical roughness.

This example illustrates particle tracking being used in a "bubble wire"
mode in which particles are periodicly released along a horizontal
line segment upstream of a hemispherical roughness element [1,2].  

## PARTICLE TRACKING

Currently, this is set up to support only a few bubble wires,
in order to illustrate basic particle tracking.  

## CONFIGURATION:

The hemisphere of radius R=0.5 is placed onto a thin cylinder of 
radius R and height dz = 0.1R, which is placed onto a smooth 
plate. The depth, width and length of the channel are H=6.5R, 
B=12.8R and L=36.4R. The boundary conditions (BC) are a Dirichlet 
BC as a prescribed Blasius profile at the inlet, outflow BC 
at the outlet and stress free symmetry conditions at the lateral 
boundaries and at the channel surface.    

The Blasius profile is approximated with the following formula: 

u = U0 sin ( pi y / 2d )

d=1.2R is the boundary layer thickness 
U0 =1.0 is the free stream velocity. 

Suggested Reynolds numbers (Re=UR/nu): Re=100, Re=450, Re=700

Particles can be plotted with the attached matlab script, "plotit.m"

A visit script will be provided soon.

[1] M.S. Acalar and C.R. Smith, "A study of hairpin vortices in a laminar 
boundary layer: Part 1, hairpin vortices generated by a hemisphere 
protuberance," J. Fluid Mech. 175, pp. 1-41, 1987

[2] H.M. Tufo, P.F. Fischer, M.E. Papka and K. Blom, "Numerical simulation 
and immersive visualization of hairpin vortices," Proc. of the ACM/IEEE 
SC99 Conf. on High Performance Networking and Computing, IEEE Computer Soc., 1999.
